# Synthetic-Brain-Aging

In this repo, we publish two datasets: i) A true dataset including 2044 images from the open-access OASIS-3 dataset, which have been processed with FreeSurfer to suit the standard machine learning algorithm; ii) A synthetic collection of three datasets, which is generated by our proposed methodology (the following paper [1]), more details are shown in the corresponding subsection. 

If you use either of these datasets, please cite the following and refer to the corresponding Data Use Agreement.
- [1] TBA

- [2] OASIS-3: Longitudinal Neuroimaging, Clinical, and Cognitive Dataset for Normal Aging and Alzheimer Disease.
Pamela J LaMontagne, Tammie L.S. Benzinger, John C. Morris, Sarah Keefe, Russ Hornbeck, Chengjie Xiong, Elizabeth Grant, Jason Hassenstab, Krista Moulder, Andrei Vlassenko, Marcus E. Raichle, Carlos Cruchaga, Daniel Marcus, 2019. medRxiv. doi: 10.1101/2019.12.13.19014902

- [3] The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (ADNI): MRI methods.
Jack Jr C R, Bernstein M A, Fox N C, et al. Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging: An Official Journal of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 2008, 27(4): 685-691.

## Download
[link1(true_data)]TBA

[link2(synthetic_data)]TBA

## True data collection from [OASIS-3](https://www.oasis-brains.org/#access)
Each directory contains one processed T1 weighted scan (`img.nii,gz`) and the corresponding label segmentation (`seg.nii.gz`). We collected the skull stripped and bias-corrected 'norm' images with FreeSufer, and then used the talairach.xfm to affine align all T1-w scans. In order to fit the most machine learning algorithm, we further rescale the intensity of each scan between [0,1]. Details for each directory are shown as follows:
```
FILENAME     SHAPE             SPACE
img.nii.gz   256 x 256 x 256   rescaled norm scan in templete space
seg.nii.gz   256 x 256 x 256   corresponding segmentation in templete space
```
We also provide a metadata file including the age, gender, and healthy/not info for each T1-w scan. 

## Synthetic collection of three data sets

This collection includes the synthetic aging brain T1 MRI scans derived from three data sets: two publicly available data sets i) OASIS-3, ii) [ADNI](https://adni.loni.usc.edu/about/), and a new data set GENIC from our collaborator [Daniel Ferreira Padilla](https://medarbetare.ki.se/people/daniel-ferreira-padilla). Note that the goal of this project is to augment the **HEALTHY** longitudinal brain MRI data as much as possible at different ages. 

The details of three synthetic data sets are shown as follows:
```
DATA SET      NUMBER OF SYNTHETIC SCANS      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS      
OASIS-3       3948                           347
ADNI          2500                           353
GENIC         1100                           96
```

Each directory contains a series of synthetic T1-w scans and corresponding segmentation for each subject. All segmentations are collected by using FreeSurfer ([aparc+aseg.mgz](https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/ReconAllDevTable)). Details for each directory are shown as follows:
```
FILENAME      SHAPE             SPACE
imgX.nii.gz   160 x 160 x 192   synthetic scan in templete space
segX.nii.gz   160 x 160 x 192   corresponding segmentation in templete space
```
In addition, we also provide the metadata file including `linear ages` and `regressed ages` for each synthetic scan for each data set, respectively. Please refer to paper [1] for more details of the age assignment.

## Data Use Agreement
- [OASIS-3](https://www.oasis-brains.org/#access)
- [ADNI](https://adni.loni.usc.edu/data-samples/access-data/#access_data)
- [GENIC]TODO
